CHARTER OF THE UNITED NATIONS
AND
STATUTE OF THE
INTERNATIONAL COURT OF JUSTICE
SAN FRANCISCO • 1945

CHARTER OF THE UNITED NATIONS
WE THE PEOPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS
DETERMINED
to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war, which twice in our life-
time has brought untold sorrow to mankind, and
to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the
human person, in the equal rights of men and women and of nations large and
small, and
to establish conditions under which justice and respect for the obligations arising
from treaties and other sources of international law can be maintained, and
to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom,
AND FOR THESE ENDS
to practice tolerance and live together in peace with one another as good
neighbors, and
to unite our strength to maintain international peace and security, and
to ensure, by the acceptance of principles and the institution of methods, that
armed force shall not be used, save in the common interest, and
to employ international machinery for the promotion of the economic and social
advancement of all peoples,
HAVE RESOLVED TO COMBINE OUR EFFORTS
TO ACCOMPLISH THESE AIMS.
Accordingly, our respective Governments, through representatives assembled in
the city of San Francisco, who have exhibited their full powers found to be in good
and due form, have agreed to the present Charter of the United Nations and do
hereby establish an international organization to be known as the United Nations.

CHAPTER I
disputes by peaceful means in such a manner that
international peace and security, and justice, are
PURPOSES AND PRINCIPLES
not endangered.

Article 1
4. All Members shall refrain in their interna-
The^Purposes of the United Nations are: tional relations from the threat or use of force
1. To maintain international peace and se- against the territorial integrity or political inde-
curity, and to that end: to take effective collec- pendence of any state, or in any other manner
tive measures for the prevention and removal of inconsistent with the Purposes of the United
threats to the peace, and for the suppression of Nations.
acts of aggression or other breaches of the peace, 5. All Members shall give the United Nations
and to bring about by peaceful means, and in con- every assistance in any action it takes in accord-
formity with the principles of justice and inter- ance with the present Charter, and shall refrain
national law, adjustment or settlement of inter- from giving assistance to any state against which
national disputes or situations which might lead the United Nations is taking preventive or enforce-
to a breach of the peace; ment action.
2. To develop friendly relations among nations 6. The Organization shall ensure that states
based on respect for the principle of equal rights which are not Members of the United Nations act
and self-determination of peoples, and to take in accordance with these Principles so far as may
other appropriate measures to strengthen univer- be necessary for the maintenance of international
sal peace; peace and security.
3. To achieve international cooperation in 7. Nothing contained in the present Charter
solving international problems of an economic, shall authorize the United Nations to intervene in
social, cultural, or humanitarian character, and in matters which are essentially within the domestic
promoting and encouraging respect for human jurisdiction of any state or shall require the Mem-
rights and for fundamental freedoms for all with- bers to submit such matters to settlement under
out distinction as to race, sex, language, or re- the present Charter; but this principle shall not
ligion; and prejudice the application of enforcement meas-
4. To be a center for harmonizing the actions ures under Chapter VII.
of nations in the attainment of these common ends.

Article 2
The Organization and its Members, in pursuit CHAPTER II
of the Purposes stated in Article 1, shall act in
MEMBERSHIP
accordance with the following Principles.
1. The Organization is based on the principle

Article 3
of the sovereign equality of all its Members. The original Members of the United Nations
2. All Members, in order to ensure to all of shall be the states which, having participated in
them the rights and benefits resulting from mem- the United Nations Conference on International
bership, shall fulfil in good faith the obligations Organization at San Francisco, or having previ-
assumed by them in accordance with the present ously signed the Declaration by United Nations
Charter. of January 1,1942, sign the present Charter and
3. All Members shall settle their international ratify it in accordance with Article 110.

Article 4

Article 8
1. Membership in the United Nations is open The United Nations shall place no restrictions
to all other peace-loving states which accept the on the eligibility of men and women to participate
obligations contained in the present Charter and, in any capacity and under conditions of equality
in the judgment of the Organization, are able and in-its principal and subsidiary organs.
willing to carry out these obligations.
2. The admission of any such state to mem-
bership in the United Nations will be effected by a
CHAPTER IV
decision of the General Assembly upon the recom-
mendation of the Security Council.
THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY
Article 5 Composition
/
A Member of the United Nations against which

Article 9
preventive or enforcement action has been taken 1. The General Assembly shall consist of all
by the Security Council may be suspended from the Members of the United Nations.
the exercise of the rights and privileges of mem- 2. Each Member shall have not more than five
bership by the General Assembly upon the recom- representatives in the General Assembly.
mendation of the Security Council. The exercise
of these rights and privileges may be restored by Functions and Powers
the Security Council.

Article 10
The General Assembly may discuss any ques-

Article 6
tions or any matters within the scope of the present
A Member of the United Nations which has Charter or relating to the powers and functions of
persistently violated the Principles contained in any organs provided for in the present Charter,
the present Charter may be expelled from the and, except as provided in Article 12, may make
Organization by the General Assembly upon the recommendations to the Members of the United
recommendation of the Security Council. Nations or to the Security Council or to both on
any such questions or matters.

Article 11
CHAPTER III
1. The General Assembly may consider the
general principles of cooperation in the mainte-
ORGANS
nance of international peace and security, includ-
Article 7 ing the principles governing disarmament and the
1. There are established as the principal or- regulation of armaments, and may make recom-
gans of the United Nations: a General Assem- mendations with regard to such principles to the
bly, a Security Council, an Economic and Social Members or to the Security Council or to both.
Council, a Trusteeship Council, an International 2. The General Assembly may discuss any
Court of Justice, and a Secretariat. questions relating to the maintenance of inter-
2. Such subsidiary organs as may be found national peace and security brought before it by
necessary may be established in accordance with any Member of the United Nations, or by the
the present Charter. Security Council, or by a state which is not a

Member of the United Nations in accordance with b. promoting international cooperation in
Article 35, paragraph 2, and, except as provided the economic, social, cultural, educational, and
in Article 12, may make recommendations with health fields, and assisting in the realization of
regard to any such questions to the state or states human rights and fundamental freedoms for
concerned or to the Security Council or to both. all without distinction as to race, sex, language,
Any such question on which action is necessary or religion.
shall be referred to the Security Council by the 2. The further responsibilities, functions, and
General Assembly either before or after dis- powers of the General Assembly with respect to
cussion. matters mentioned in paragraph l(b) above are
3. The General Assembly may call the atten- set forth in Chapters IX and X.
tion of the Security Council to situations which
are likely to endanger international peace and

Article 14
security. Subject to the provisions of Article 12, the
4. The powers of the General Assembly set General Assembly may recommend measures for
forth in this Article shall not limit the general the peaceful adjustment of any situation, regard-
scope of Article 10. less of origin, which it deems likely to impair the
general welfare or friendly relations among na-
Article 12 tions, including situations resulting from a viola-
1. While the Security Council is exercising in tion of the provisions of the present Charter setting
respect of any dispute or situation the functions forth the Purposes and Principles of the United
assigned to it in the present Charter, the General Nations.
Assembly shall not make any recommendation

Article 15
with regard to that dispute or situation unless the 1. The General Assembly shall receive and
Security Council so requests. consider annual and special reports from the Se-
2. The Secretary-General, with the consent of curity Council; these reports shall include an
the Security Council, shall notify the General account of the measures that the Security Council
Assembly at each session of any matters relative has decided upon or taken to maintain interna-
to the maintenance of international peace and tional peace and security.
security which are being dealt with by the Security 2. The General Assembly shall receive and
Council and shall similarly notify the General consider reports from the other organs of the
Assembly, or the Members of the United Nations United Nations.
if the General Assembly is not in session, immedi-
ately the Security Council ceases to deal with such

Article 16
matters. The General Assembly shall perform such
functions with respect to the international trus-
Article 13 teeship system as are assigned to it under Chap-
1. The General Assembly shall initiate studies ters XII and XIII, including the approval of the
and make recommendations for the purpose of : trusteeship agreements for areas not designated
a. promoting international cooperation in as strategic.
the political field and encouraging the progres-

Article 17
sive development of international law and its 1. The General Assembly shall consider and
codification; approve the budget of the Organization.

2. The expenses of the Organization shall be due from it for the preceding two full years. The
borne by the Members as apportioned by the General Assembly may, nevertheless, permit such
General Assembly. a Member to vote if it is satisfied that the failure
3. The General Assembly shall consider and to pay is due to conditions beyond the control of
approve any financial and budgetary arrange- the Member.
ments with specialized agencies referred to in
Procedure
Article 57 and shall examine the administra-

Article 20
tive budgets of such specialized agencies with a
view to making recommendations to the agencies The General Assembly shall meet in regular
concerned. annual sessions and in such special sessions as
occasion may require. Special sessions shall be
Voting convoked by the Secretary-General at the request
Article 18 of the Security Council or of a majority of the
1. Each member of the General Assembly Members of the United Nations.
shall have one vote.
2. Decisions of the General Assembly on im-

Article 21
portant questions shall be made by a two-thirds The General Assembly shall adopt its own rules
majority of the members present and voting. of procedure. It shall elect its President for each
These questions shall include: recommendations session.
with respect to the maintenance of international
peace and security, the election of the non-perma-

Article 22
nent members of the Security Council, the elec- The General Assembly may establish such
tion of the members of the Economic and Social subsidiary organs as it deems necessary for the
Council, the election of members of the Trustee- performance of its functions.
ship Council in accordance with paragraph l(c)
of Article 86, the admission of new Members to
the United Nations, the suspension of the rights CHAPTER V
and privileges of membership, the expulsion of
THE SECURITY COUNCIL
Members, questions relating to the operation of
the trusteeship system, and budgetary questions. Composition
3. Decisions on other questions, including the

Article 23
determination of additional categories of ques- 1. The Security Council shall consist of eleven
tions to be decided by a two-thirds majority, shall Members of the United Nations. The Republic
be made by a majority of the members present of China, France, the Union of Soviet Socialist
and voting. Republics, the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, and the United States of
Article 19 America shall be permanent members of the
A Member of the United Nations which is in Security Council. The General Assembly shall
arrears in the payment of its financial contribu- elect six other Members of the United Nations to
tions to the Organization shall have no vote in be non-permanent members of the Security Coun-
the General Assembly if the amount of its arrears cil, due regard being specially paid, in the first
equals or exceeds the amount of the contributions instance to the contribution of Members of the

United Nations to the maintenance of interna- curity Council shall be responsible for formulat-
tional peace and security and to the other pur- ing, with the assistance of the Military Staff Com-
poses of the Organization, and also to equitable mittee referred to in Article 47, plans to be sub-
geographical distribution. mitted to the Members of the United Nations for
2. The non-permanent members of the Se- the establishment of a system for the regulation
curity Council shall be elected for a term of two "of armaments.
years. In the first election of the non-permanent
members, however, three shall be chosen for a Voting
term of one year. A retiring member shall not be

Article 27
eligible for immediate re-election. 1. Each member of the Security Council shall
3. Each member of the Security Council shall have one vote.
have one representative. 2. Decisions of the Security Council on pro-
cedural matters shall be made by an affirmative
Functions and Powers vote of seven members.

Article 24
3. Decisions of the Security Council on all
1. In order to ensure prompt and effective other matters shall be made by an affirmative vote
action by the United Nations, its Members confer of seven members including the concurring votes
on the Security Council primary responsibility of the permanent members ; provided that, in deci-
for the maintenance of international peace and sions under Chapter VI, and under paragraph 3
security, and agree that in carrying out its duties of Article 52, a party to a dispute shall abstain
under this responsibility the Security Council acts from voting.
on their behalf.
2. In discharging these duties the Security Procedure
Council shall act in accordance with the Purposes Article
and Principles of the United Nations. The specific 1. The Security Council shall be so organized
powers granted to the Security Council for the as to be able to function continuously. Each
discharge of these duties are laid down in Chapters member of the Security Council shall for this pur-
VI, VII, VIII, and XII. pose be represented at all times at the seat of the
3. The Security Council shall submit annual Organization.
and, when necessary, special reports to the Gen- 2. The Security Council shall hold periodic
eral Assembly for its consideration. meetings at which each of its members may, if it
so desires, be represented by a member of the
Article 25 government or by some other specially designated
The Members of the United Nations agree to representative.
accept and carry out the decisions of the Security 3. The Security Council may hold meetings at
Council in accordance with the present Charter. such places other than the seat of the Organization
as in its judgment will best facilitate its work.

Article 26
In order to promote the establishment and

Article 29
maintenance of international peace and security The Security Council may establish such sub-
with the least diversion for armaments of the sidiary organs as it deems necessary for the per-
world's human and economic resources, the Se- formance of its functions.

Article 30
national friction or give rise to a dispute, in order
The Security Council shall adopt its own rules to determine whether the continuance of the dis-
of procedure, including the method of selecting pute or situation is likely to endanger the main-
its President. tenance of international peace and security.

Article 31
Any Member of the United Nations which is not

Article 35
a member of the Security Council may participate, 1. Any Member of the United Nations may
without vote, in the discussion of any question bring any dispute, or any situation of the nature
brought before the Security Council whenever the referred to in Article 34, to the attention of the
latter considers that the interests of that Member Security Council or of the General Assembly.
are specially affected. 2. A state which is not a Member of the United
Nations may bring to the attention of the Security
Article 32 Council or of the General Assembly any dispute
Any Member of the United Nations which is to which it is a party if it accepts in advance, for
not a member of the Security Council or any state the purposes of the dispute, the obligations of
which is not a Member of the United Nations, if pacific settlement provided in the present Charter.
it is a party to a dispute under consideration by 3. The proceedings of the General Assembly
the Security Council, shall be invited to partici- in respect of matters brought to its attention under
pate, without vote, in the discussion relating to this Article will be subject to the provisions of
the dispute. The Security Council shall lay down Articles 11 and 12.
such conditions as it deems just for the participa-
tion, of a state which is not a Member of the United

Article 36
Nations. 1. The Security Council may, at any stage of
a dispute of the nature referred to in

Article 33
CHAPTER VI
or of a situation of like nature, recommend appro-
priate procedures or methods of adjustment.
PACIFIC SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES
2. The Security Council should take into con-
Article 33 sideration any procedures for the settlement of
1. The parties to any dispute, the continuance the dispute which have already been adopted by
of which is likely to endanger the maintenance of the parties.
international peace and security, shall, first of all, 3. In making recommendations under this Ar-
seek a solution by negotiation, enquiry, mediation, ticle the Security Council should also take into
conciliation, arbitration, judicial settlement, re- consideration that legal disputes should as a gen-
sort to regional agencies or arrangements, or other eral rule be referred by the parties to the Interna-
peaceful means of their own choice. tional Court of Justice in accordance with the
2. The Security Council shall, when it deems provisions of the Statute of the Court.
necessary, call upon the parties to settle their
dispute by such means.

Article 37
1. Should the parties to a dispute of the nature
Article 34 referred to in Article 33 fail to settle it by the
The Security Council may investigate any dis- means indicated in that Article, they shall refer it
pute, or any situation which might lead to inter- to the Security Council.
8

2. If the Security Council deems that the con- employed to give effect to its decisions, and it may
tinuance of the dispute is in fact likely to endanger call upon the Members of the United Nations to
the maintenance of international peace and se- apply such measures. These may include com-
curity, it shall decide whether to take action under plete or partial interruption of economic relations
Article 36 or to recommend such terms of settle- and of rail, sea, air, postal, telegraphic, radio,
ment as it may consider appropriate. and other means of communication, and the sev-
erance of diplomatic relations.

Article 38
Without prejudice to the provisions of Articles

Article 42
33 to 37, the Security Council may, if all the par- Should the Security Council consider that meas-
ties to any dispute so request, make recommenda- ures provided for in Article 41 would be inade-
tions to the parties with a view to a pacific settle- quate or have proved to be inadequate, it may take
ment of the dispute. such action by air, sea, or land forces as may be
necessary to maintain or restore international
CHAPTER W peace and security. Such action may include
demonstrations, blockade, and other operations
ACTION WITH RESPECT TO THREATS TO
by air, sea, or land forces of Members of the United
THE PEACE, BREACHES OF THE PEACE,
Nations.
AND ACTS OF AGGRESSION

Article 43
Article 39 1. All Members of the United Nations, in order
The Security Council shall determine the exist- to contribute to the maintenance of international
ence of any threat to the peace, breach of the peace and security, undertake to make available
peace, or act of aggression and shall make recom- to the Security Council, on its call and in accord-
mendations, or decide what measures shall be ance with a special agreement or agreements,
taken in accordance with Articles 41 and 42, to armed forces, assistance, and facilities, including
maintain or restore international peace and se- rights of passage, necessary for the purpose of
curity. maintaining international peace and security.
Article 40 2. Such agreement or agreements shall govern
In order to prevent an aggravation of the situa- the numbers and types of forces, their degree of
tion, the Security Council may, before making the readiness and general location, and the nature of
recommendations or deciding upon the measures the facilities and assistance to be provided.
provided for in Article 39, call upon the parties 3. The agreement or agreements shall be ne-
concerned to comply with such provisional meas- gotiated as soon as possible on the initiative of the
ures as it deems necessary or desirable. Such pro- Security Council. They shall be concluded be-
visional measures shall be without prejudice to the tween the Security Council and Members or be-
rights, claims, or position of the parties concerned. tween the Security Council and groups of Members
The Security Council shall duly take account of and shall be subject to ratification by the signatory
failure to comply with such provisional measures. states in accordance with their respective constitu-
tional processes. .
Article 41

Article 44
The Security Council may decide what meas- When the Security Council has decided to use
ures not involving the use of armed force are to be force it shall, before calling upon a Member not

represented on it to provide armed forces in ful- 3. The Military Staff Committee shall be re-
filhnent of the obligations assumed under Article sponsible under the Security Council for the
43, invite that Member, if the Member so desires, strategic direction of any armed forces placed at
to participate in the decisions of the Security the disposal of the Security Council. Questions
Council concerning the employment of contin- relating to the command of such forces shall be
gents of that Member's armed forces. worked out subsequently.
4. The Military Staff Committee, with the

Article 45
authorization of the Security Council and after
In order to enable the United Nations to take consultation with appropriate regional agencies,
urgent military measures, Members shall hold may establish regional subcommittees.
immediately available national air-force contin-
gents for combined international enforcement ac-

Article 48
tion. The strength and degree of readiness of these 1. The action required to carry out the deci-
contingents and plans for their combined action sions of the Security Council for the mainte-
shall be determined, within the limits laid down in nance of international peace and security shall be
the special agreement or agreements referred to taken by all the Members of the United Nations
in Article 43, by the Security Council with the or by some of them, as the Security Council may
assistance of the Military Staff Committee. determine.
2. Such decisions shall be carried out by the

Article 46
Members of the United Nations directly and
Plans for the application of armed force shall through their action in the appropriate interna-
be made by the Security Council with the assist- tional agencies of which they are members.
ance of the Military Staff Committee.

Article 49
Article 47 The Members of the United Nations shall join
1. There shall be established a Military Staff in affording mutual assistance in carrying out the
Committee to advise and assist the Security measures decided upon by the Security Council.
Council on all questions relating to the Security
Council's military requirements for the mainte-

Article 50
nance of international peace and security, the em- If preventive or enforcement measures against
ployment and command of forces placed at its any state are taken by the Security Council, any
disposal, the regulation of armaments, and pos- other state, whether a Member of the United
sible disarmament. Nations or not, which finds itself confronted with
2. The Military Staff Committee shall consist special economic problems arising from the carry-
of the Chiefs of Staff of the permanent members ing out of those measures shall have the right to
of the Security Council or their representatives. consult the Security Council with regard to a solu-
Any Member of the United Nations not perma- tion of those problems.
nently represented on the Committee shall be in-
vited by the Committee to be associated with it

Article 51
when the efficient discharge of the Committee's Nothing in the present Charter shall impair the
responsibilities requires the participation of that inherent right of individual or collective self-
Member in its work. defense if an armed attack occurs against a Mem-
10

her of the United Nations, until the Security Coun- agencies for enforcement action Under its author-
cil has taken the measures necessary to maintain ity. But no enforcement action shall be taken
international peace and security. Measures taken under regional arrangements or by regional agen-
by Members in the exercise of this right of self- cies without the authorization of the Security
defense shall be immediately reported to the Se- Council with the exception of measures against
*
curity Council and shall not in any way affect the any enemy state, as defined in paragraph 2 of
authority and responsibility of the Security Coun- this Article, provided for pursuant to Article
cil under the present Charter to take at any time 107 or in regional arrangements directed against
such action as it deems necessary in order to main- renewal of aggressive policy on the part of any
tain or restore international peace and security. such state, until such time as the Organization
may, on request of the Governments concerned,
be charged with the responsibility for preventing
CHAPTER VIII further aggression by such a state.
2. The term enemy state as used in paragraph
REGIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
1 of this Article applies to any state which during
Article 52 the Second World War has been an enemy of any
1. Nothing in the present Charter precludes signatory of the present Charter.
the existence of regional arrangements or agen-
cies for dealing with such matters relating to the

Article 54
maintenance of international peace and security The Security Council shall at all times be kept
as are appropriate for regional action, provided fully informed of activities undertaken or in con-
that such arrangements or agencies and their ac- templation under regional arrangements or by
tivities are consistent with the Purposes and Prin- regional agencies for the maintenance of inter-
ciples of the United Nations. national peace and security.
2. The Members of the United Nations enter-
ing into such arrangements or constituting such
CHAPTER IX
agencies shall make every effort to achieve pacific
settlement of local disputes through such re-
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AND
gional arrangements or by such regional agencies
SOCIAL COOPERATION
before referring them to the Security Council.
3. The Security Council shall encourage the

Article 55
development of pacific settlement of local dis- With a view to the creation of conditions of
putes through such regional arrangements or by stability and well-being which are necessary for
such regional agencies either on the initiative of peaceful and friendly relations among nations
the states concerned or by reference from the based on respect for the principle of equal rights
Security Council. and self-determination of peoples, the United
4. This Article in no way impairs the applica- Nations shall promote:
tion of .Articles 34 and 35. a. higher standards of living, full employ-
ment, and conditions of economic and social

Article 53
progress and development;
1. The Security Council shall, where appro- b. solutions of international economic, so-
priate, utilize such regional arrangements or cial, health, and related problems; and inter-
11

national cultural and educational cooperation; the Economic and Social Council, which shall
and have for this purpose the powers set forth in
c. universal respect for, and observance of, Chapter X.
human rights and fundamental freedoms for
all without distinction as to race, sex, language,
CHAPTER X
or religion.

Article 56
THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COUNCIL
All Members pledge themselves to take joint
and separate action in cooperation with the Or- Composition
ganization for the achievement of the purposes set

Article 61
forth in Article 55. 1. The Economic and Social Council shall con-
sist of eighteen Members of the United Nations
Article 57 elected by the General Assembly.
1. The various specialized agencies, estab- 2. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 3,
lished by intergovernmental agreement and hav- six members of the Economic and Social Council
ing wide international responsibilities, as defined shall be elected each year for a term of three years.
in their basic instruments, in economic, social, A retiring member shall be eligible for immediate
cultural, educational, health, and related fields, re-election.
shall be brought into relationship with the United 3. At the first election, eighteen members of
Nations in accordance with the provisions of the Economic and Social Council shall be chosen.
Article 63. The term of office of six members so chosen shall
2. Such agencies thus brought into relation- expire at the end of one year, and of six other
ship with the United Nations are hereinafter re- members at the end of two years, in accordance
ferred to as specialized agencies. with arrangements made by the General Assembly.
4. Each member of the Economic and Social

Article 58
Council shall have one representative.
The Organization shall make recommendations
for the coordination of the policies and activities Functions and Powers
of the specialized agencies.

Article 62
1. The Economic and Social Council may make

Article 59
or initiate studies and reports with respect to inter-
The Organization shall, where appropriate, national economic, social, cultural, educational,
initiate negotiations among the states concerned health, and related matters and may make recom-
for the creation of any new specialized agencies mendations with respect to any such matters to the
required for the accomplishment of the purposes General Assembly, to the Members of the United
set forth in Article 55. Nations, and to the specialized agencies concerned.
2. It may make recommendations for the pur-

Article 60
pose of promoting respect for, and observance of,
Responsibility for the discharge of the func- human rights and fundamental freedoms for all.
tions of the Organization set forth in this Chap- 3. It may prepare draft conventions for sub-
ter shall be vested in the General Assembly and, mission to the General Assembly, with respect to
under the authority of the General Assembly, in matters falling within its competence.
12

4. It may call, in accordance with the rules Assembly, perform services at the request of
prescribed by the United Nations, international Members of the United Nations and at the request
conferences on matters falling within its com- of specialized agencies.
petence. 3. It shall perform such other functions as are
Article 63 specified elsewhere in the present Charter or as
1. The Economic and Social Council may en- may be assigned to it by the General Assembly.
ter into agreements with any of the agencies re-
ferred to in Article 57, defining the terms on Voting
which the agency concerned shall be brought into

Article 67
relationship with the United Nations. Such agree- 1. Each member of the Economic and Social
ments shall be subject to approval by the Gen- Council shall have one vote.
eral Assembly. 2. Decisions of the Economic and Social Coun-
2. It may coordinate the activities of the spe- cil shall be made by a majority of the members
cialized agencies through consultation with and present and voting.
recommendations to such agencies and through
recommendations to the General Assembly and to Procedure
the Members of the United Nations.

Article 68
The Economic and Social Council shall set up
Article 64 commissions in economic and social fields and for
1. The Economic and Social Council may the promotion of human rights, and such other
take appropriate steps to obtain regular reports commissions as may be required for the perform-
from the specialized agencies. It may make ar- ance of its functions.
rangements with the Members of the United
Nations and with the specialized agencies to obtain

Article 69
reports on the steps taken to give effect to its own The Economic and Social Council shall invite
recommendations and to recommendations on any Member of the United Nations to participate,
matters falling within its competence made by without vote, in its deliberations on any matter
the General Assembly. of particular concern to that Member.
2. It may communicate its observations on
these reports to the General Assembly.

Article 70
The Economic and Social Council may make

Article 65
arrangements for representatives of the special-
The Economic and Social Council may furnish ized agencies to participate, without vote, in its
information to the Security Council and shall deliberations and in those of the commissions
assist the Security Council upon its request. established by it, and for its representatives to
participate in the deliberations of the specialized
Article 66 agencies.
1. The Economic and Social Council shall per-

Article 71
form such functions as fall within its competence The Economic and Social Council may make
in connection with the carrying out of the recom- suitable arrangements for consultation with non-
mendations of the General Assembly. governmental organizations which are concerned
2. It may, with the approval of the General with matters within its competence. Such arrange-
13

ments may be made with international organiza- c. to further international peace and se-
tions and, where appropriate, with national or- curity;
ganizations after consultation with the Member d. to promote constructive measures of de-
of the United Nations concerned. velopment, to encourage research, and to co-
operate with one another and, when and where
Article 72 appropriate, with specialized international bod-
1. The Economic and Social Council shall ies with a view to the practical achievement of
adopt its own rules of procedure, including the the social, economic, and scientific purposes
method of selecting its President. set forth in this Article; and
2. The Economic and Social Council shall meet e. to transmit regularly to the Secretary-
as required in accordance with its rules, which General for information purposes, subject to
shall include provision for the convening of meet- such limitation as security and constitutional
ings on the request of a majority of its members. considerations may require, statistical and other
information of a technical nature relating to
CHAPTER XI
economic, social, and educational conditions in
the territories for which they are respectively
DECLARATION REGARDING
responsible other than those territories to which
NON-SELF-GOVERNING TERRITORIES
Chapters XII and XIII apply.

Article 73
Members of the United Nations which have or

Article 74
assume responsibilities for the administration of Members of the United Nations also agree that
territories whose peoples have not yet attained their policy in respect of the territories to which
a full measure of self-government recognize the this Chapter applies, no less than in respect of their
principle that the interests of the inhabitants of metropolitan areas, must be based on the general
these territories are paramount, and accept as a principle of good-neighborliness, due account be-
sacred trust the obligation to promote to the ut- ing taken of the interests and well-being of the rest
most, within the system of international peace and of the world, in social, economic, and commercial
security established by the present Charter, the matters.
well-being of the inhabitants of these territories,
and, to this end: CHAPTER XII
a. to ensure, with due respect for the cul-
INTERNATIONAL TRUSTEESHIP SYSTEM
ture of the peoples concerned, their political,
economic, social, and educational advance-

Article 75
ment, their just treatment, and their protection The United Nations shall establish under its
against abuses; authority an international trusteeship system for
b. to develop self-government, to take due the administration and supervision of such terri-
account of the political aspirations of the tories as may be placed thereunder by subsequent
peoples, and to assist them in the progressive individual agreements. These territories are
development of their free political institutions, hereinafter referred to as trust territories.
according to the particular circumstances of
each territory and its peoples and their varying

Article 76
i stages of advancement; The basic objectives of the trusteeship system,
14

in accordance with the Purposes of the United will be brought under the trusteeship system and
Nations laid down in Article 1 of the present Char- upon what terms.
ter, shall be:

Article 78
a. to further international peace and se-
curity; The trusteeship system shall not apply to terri-
b. to promote the political, economic, social, tories which have become Members of the United
and educational advancement of the inhabitants Nations, relationship among which shall be based
of the trust territories, and their progressive on respect for the principle of sovereign equality.
development towards self-government or inde-
pendence as may be appropriate to the par-

Article 79
ticular circumstances of each territory and its The terms of trusteeship for each territory to
peoples and the freely expressed wishes of the be placed under the trusteeship system, including
peoples concerned, and as may be provided by any alteration or amendment, shall be agreed upon
the terms of each trusteeship agreement; by the states directly concerned, including the
c. to encourage respect for human rights mandatory power in the case of territories held
and for fundamental freedoms for all without under mandate by a Member of the United Na-
distinction as to race, sex, language, or religion, tions, and shall be approved as provided for in
and to encourage recognition of the interde- Articles 83 and 85.
pendence of the peoples of the world; and
d. to ensure equal treatment in social, eco-

Article 80
nomic, and commercial matters for all Members 1. Except as may be agreed upon in individual
of the United Nations and their nationals, and trusteeship agreements, made under Articles 77,
also equal treatment for the latter in the ad- 79, and 81, placing each territory under the trus-
ministration of justice, without prejudice to the teeship system, and until such agreements have
attainment of the foregoing objectives and sub- been concluded, nothing in this Chapter shall be
ject to the provisions of Article 80. construed in or of itself to alter in any manner
the rights whatsoever of any states or any peoples
or the terms of existing international instruments
Article 77 to which Members of the United Nations may re-
1. The trusteeship system shall apply to spectively be parties.
such territories in the following categories as may 2. Paragraph 1 of this Article shall not be in-
be placed thereunder by means of trusteeship terpreted as giving grounds for delay or postpone-
agreements: ment of the negotiation and conclusion of agree-
a. territories now held under mandate; ments for placing mandated and other territories
b. territories which may be detached from under the trusteeship system as provided for in
enemy states as a result of the Second World Article 77.
War; and

Article 81
c. territories voluntarily placed under the The trusteeship agreement shall in each case
system by states responsible for their admin- include the terms under which the trust territory
istration. will be administered and designate the authority
2. It will be a matter for subsequent agreement which will exercise the administration of the trust
as to which territories in the foregoing categories territory. Such authority, hereinafter called the
15

administering authority, may be one or more regard to trusteeship agreements for all areas not
states or the Organization itself. designated as strategic, including the approval of
the terms of the trusteeship agreements and of
Article 82 , their alteration or amendment, shall be exercised
There may be designated, in any trusteeship by the General Assembly.
agreement, a strategic area or areas which may 2. The Trusteeship Council, operating under
include part or all of the trust territory to which the authority of the General Assembly, shall assist
the agreement applies, without prejudice to any the General Assembly in carrying out these
special agreement or agreements made under functions.
Article 43.

Article 83
1. All functions of the United Nations relating CHAPTER XIII
to strategic areas, including the approval of the
THE TRUSTEESHIP COUNCIL
terms of the trusteeship agreements and of their
alteration or amendment, shall be exercised by the Composition
Security Council.

Article 86
2. The basic objectives set forth in Article 76 1. The Trusteeship Council shall consist of
shall be applicable to the people of each strategic the following Members of the United Nations:
area. a. those Members administering trust ter-
3. The Security Council shall, subject to the ritories;
provisions of the trusteeship agreements and with- b. such of those Members mentioned by
out prejudice to security considerations, avail name in Article 23 as are not administering
itself of the assistance of the Trusteeship Council trust territories; and
to perform those functions of the United Nations c. as many other Members elected for three-
under the trusteeship system relating to political, year terms by the General Assembly as may be
economic, social, and educational matters in the necessary to ensure that the total number of
strategic areas. members of the Trusteeship Council is equally
divided between those Members of the United
Article 84 Nations which administer trust territories and
It shall be the duty of the administering author- those which do not.
ity to ensure that the trust territory shall play its 2. Each member of the Trusteeship Council
part in the maintenance of international peace and shall designate one specially qualified person to
security. To this end the administering authority represent it therein.
may make use of volunteer forces, facilities, and
assistance from the trust territory in carrying out
Functions and Powers
the obligations towards the Security Council un-
dertaken in this regard by the administering au-

Article 87
thority, as well as for local defense and the main- The General Assembly and, under its author-
tenance of law and order within the trust territory. ity, the Trusteeship Council, in carrying out their
functions, may:
Article 85 a. consider reports submitted by the admin-
1. The functions of the United Nations with istering authority;
16

CHAPTER XIV
b. accept petitions and examine them in
consultation with the administering authority;
THE INTERNATIONAL COURT
c. provide for periodic visits to the respec-
OF JUSTICE
tive trust territories at times agreed upon with
the administering authority; and

Article 92
d. take these and other actions in conformity The International Court of Justice shall be the
with the terms of the trusteeship agreements. principal judicial organ of the United Nations.
It shall function in accordance with the annexed
Article 88 Statute, which is based upon the Statute of the
The Trusteeship Council shall formulate a Permanent Court of International Justice and
questionnaire on the political, economic, social, forms an integral part of the present Charter.
and educational advancement of the inhabitants
of each trust territory, and the administering

Article 93
authority for each trust territory within the com- 1. All Members of the United Nations are ipso
petence of the General Assembly shall make an facto parties to the Statute of the International
annual report to the General Assembly upon the Court of Justice.
basis of such questionnaire. 2. A state which is not a Member of the United
Nations may become a party to the Statute of
Voting the International Court of Justice on conditions
Article 89 to be determined in each case by the General
1. Each member of the Trusteeship Council Assembly upon the recommendation of the Secu-
shall have one vote. rity Council.
2. Decisions of the Trusteeship Council shall
be made by a majority of the members present and

Article 94
voting. 1. Each Member of the United Nations under-
takes to comply with the decision of the Inter-
Procedure national Court of Justice in any case to which it is
Article 90 a party.
1. The Trusteeship Council shall adopt its own 2. If any party to a case fails to perform the
rules of procedure, including the method of select- obligations incumbent upon it under a judgment
ing its President. rendered by the Court, the other party may have
2. The Trusteeship Council shall meet as re- recourse to the Security Council, which may, if it
quired in accordance with its rules, which shall deems necessary, make recommendations or de-
include provision for the convening of meetings cide upon measures to be taken to give effect to
on the request of a majority of its members. the judgment.
Article 91

Article 95
The Trusteeship Council shall, when appropri- Nothing in the present Charter shall prevent
ate, avail itself of the assistance of the Economic Members of the United Nations from entrusting
and Social Council and of the specialized agencies the solution of their differences to other tribunals
in regard to matters with which they are respec- by virtue of agreements already in existence or
tively concerned. which may be concluded in the future.
17

Article 96 tary-General and the staff shall not seek or receive
1. The General Assembly or the Security instructions from any government or from any
Council may request the International Court of other authority external to the Organization.
Justice to give an advisory opinion on any legal They shall refrain from any action which might
question. reflect on their position as international officials
2. Other organs of the United Nations and responsible only to the Organization.
specialized agencies, which may at any time be 2. Each Member of the United Nations under-
so authorized by the General Assembly, may also takes to respect the exclusively international
request advisory opinions of the Court on legal character of the responsibilities of the Secretary-
questions arising within the scope of their activ- General and the staff and not to seek to influence
ities. them in the discharge of their responsibilities.

Article 101
CHAPTER XV
1. The staff shall be appointed by the Secre-
tary-General under regulations established by the
THE SECRETARIAT
General Assembly.

Article 97
2. Appropriate staffs shall be permanently
The Secretariat shall comprise a Secretary- assigned to the Economic and Social Council, the
General and such staff as the Organization may Trusteeship Council, and, as required, to other
require. The Secretary-General shall be ap- organs of the United Nations. These staffs shall
pointed by the General Assembly upon the recom- form a part of the Secretariat.
mendation of the Security Council. He shall be 3. The paramount consideration in the em-
the chief administrative officer of the Organization. ployment of the staff and in the determination of
the conditions of service shall be the necessity of
Article 98 securing the highest standards of efficiency, com-
The Secretary-General shall act in that capacity petence, and integrity. Due regard shall be paid
in all meetings of the General Assembly, of the to the importance of recruiting the staff on as wide
Security Council, of the Economic and Social a geographical basis as possible.
Council, and of the Trusteeship Council, and shall
perform such other functions as are entrusted to
him by these organs. The Secretary-General shall CHAPTER XVI
make an annual report to the General Assembly
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
on the work of the Organization.

Article 102


Article 99
1. Every treaty and every international agree-
The Secretary-General may bring to the atten- ment entered into by any Member of the United
tion of the Security Council any matter which in Nations after the present Charter comes into force
his opinion may threaten the maintenance of in- shall as soon as possible be registered with the
ternational peace and security. Secretariat and published by it.
2. No party to any such treaty or international

Article 100
agreement which has not been registered in ac-
1. In the performance of their duties the Secre- cordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
18

this Article may invoke that treaty or agreement the exercise of its responsibilities under Article
before any organ of the United Nations. 42, the parties to the Four-Nation Declaration,
signed at Moscow, October 30,1943, and France,
Article 103 shall, in accordance with the provisions of para-
In the event of a conflict between the obligations graph 5 of that Declaration, consult with one an-
of the Members of the United Nations under the other and as occasion requires with other Members
present Charter and their obligations under any of the United Nations with a view to such joint
other international agreement, their obligations action on behalf of the Organization as may be
under the present Charter shall prevail. necessary for the purpose of maintaining inter-
national peace and security.

Article 104
The Organization shall enjoy in the territory of

Article 107
each of its Members such legal capacity as may be Nothing in the present Charter shall invalidate
necessary for the exercise of its functions and the or preclude action, in relation to any state which
fulfillment of its purposes. during the Second World War has been an enemy
of any signatory to the present Charter, taken or
Article 105 authorized as a result of that war by the Govern-
1. The Organization shall enjoy in the territory ments having responsibility for such action.
of each of its Members such privileges and im-
munities as are necessary for the fulfillment of its
purposes. CHAPTER XVIII
2. Representatives of the Members of the
AMENDMENTS
United Nations and officials of the Organization
shall similarly enjoy such privileges and immuni-

Article 108
ties as are necessary for the independent exercise Amendments to the present Charter shall come
of their functions in connection with the Organi- into force for all Members of the United Nations
zation. when they have been adopted by a vote of two
3. The General Assembly may make recom- thirds of the members of the General Assembly
mendations with a view to determining the details and ratified in accordance with their respective
of the application of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this constitutional processes by two thirds of the Mem-
Airticle or may propose conventions to the Mem- bers of the United Nations, including all the per-
bers of the United Nations for this purpose. manent members of the Security Council.

Article 109
CHAPTER XVH
1. A General Conference of the Members of
the United Nations for the purpose of reviewing
TRANSITIONAL SECURITY
the present Charter may be held at a date and
ARRANGEMENTS
place to be fixed by a two-thirds vote of the mem-
Article 106 bers of the General Assembly and by a vote of any
Pending the coming into force of such special seven members of the Security Council. Each
agreements referred to in Article 43 as in the Member of the United Nations shall have one vote
opinion of the Security Council enable it to begin in the conference.
19

2. Any alteration of the present Charter rec- 3. The present Charter shall come into force
ommended by a two-thirds vote of the conference upon the deposit of ratifications by the Republic
shall take effect when ratified in accordance with of China, France, the Union of Soviet Socialist
their respective constitutional processes by two Republics, the United Kingdom of Great Britain
thirds of the Members of the United Nations in- and Northern Ireland, and the United States of
cluding all the permanent members of the Security America, and by a majority of the other signatory
Council. . states. A protocol of the ratifications deposited
3. If such a conference has not been held be- shall thereupon be drawn up by the Government
fore the tenth annual session of the General As- of the United States of America which shall com-
sembly following the coming into force of the pres- municate copies thereof to all the signatory states.
ent Charter, the proposal to call such a conference 4. The states signatory to the present Charter
shall be placed on the agenda of that session of the which ratify it after it has come into force will be-
General Assembly, and the conference shall be come original Members of the United Nations on
held if so decided by a majority vote of the mem- the date of the deposit of their respective ratifi-
bers of the General Assembly and by a vote of any cations.
seven members of the Security Council. Article HI
The present Charter, of which the Chinese,
French, Russian, English, and Spanish texts are
CHAPTER XIX
equally authentic, shall remain deposited in the
archives of the Government of the United States
RATIFICATION AND SIGNATURE
of America. Duly certified copies thereof shall be
Article 110 transmitted by that Government to the Govern-
1. The present Charter shall be ratified by the ments of the other signatory states.
signatory states in accordance with their respec-
tive constitutional processes. / IN FAITH WHEREOF the representatives of the
2. The ratifications shall be deposited with the Governments of the United Nations have signed
Government of the United States of America, the present Charter.
which shall notify all the signatory states of each DONE at the city of San Francisco the twenty-
deposit as well as the Secretary-General of the sixth day of June, one thousand nine hundred and
Organization when he has been appointed. forty-five.
20

STATUTE OF THE INTERNATIONAL COURT OF JUSTICE
Article 1 those prescribed for members of the Permanent
INTERNATIONAL COURT OF JUSTICE estab- Courkof Arbitration by Article 44 of the Conven-
lished by the Charter of the United Nations as tion of The Hague of 1907 for the pacific settle-
the principal judicial organ of the United Nations ment of international disputes.
shall be constituted and shall function in accord- 3. The conditions under which a state which
ance with the provisions of the present Statute. is a party to the present Statute but is not a Mem-
ber of the United Nations may participate in elect-
CHAPTER I
ing the members of the Court shall, in the absence
of a special agreement, be laid down by the Gen-
ORGANIZATION OF THE COURT
eral Assembly upon recommendation of the Se-

Article 2
curity Council.
The Court shall be composed of a body of inde-
pendent judges, elected regardless of their nation-

Article 5
ality from among persons of high moral character, 1. At least three months before the date of the
who possess the qualifications required in their re- election, the Secretary-General of the United
spective countries for appointment to the highest Nations shall address a written request to the
judicial offices, or are jurisconsults of recognized members of the Permanent Court of Arbitration
competence in international law. belonging to the states which are parties to the
present Statute, and to the members of the na-
Article 3 tional groups appointed under Article 4, para-
1. The Court shall consist of fifteen members, graph 2, inviting them to undertake, within a given
no two of whom may be nationals of the same state. time, by national groups, the nomination of per-
2, A person who for the purposes of member- sons in a position to accept the duties of a member
ship in the Court could be regarded as a national of the Court.
of more than one state shall be deemed to be a 2. No group may nominate more than four per-
national of the one in which he ordinarily exercises sons, not more than two of whom shall be of their
civil and political rights. own nationality. In no case may the number of
candidates nominated by a group be more than
Article 4 double the number of seats to be filled.
1. The members of the Court shall be elected
by the General Assembly and by the Security

Article 6
Council from a list of persons nominated by the Before making these nominations, each national
national groups in the Permanent Court of Arbitra- group is recommended to consult its highest court
tion, in accordance with the following provisions. of justice, its legal faculties and schools of law, and
2. In the case of Members of the United Na- its national academies and national sections of in-
tions not represented in the Permanent Court of ternational academies devoted to the study of law.
Arbitration, candidates shall be nominated by
national groups appointed for this purpose by

Article 7
their governments under the same conditions as 1. The Secretary-General shall prepare a list
21

in alphabetical order of all the persons thus nomi-

Article 12
nated. Save as provided in Article 12, paragraph 1. If, after the third meeting, one or more seats
2, these shall be the only persons eligible. still remain unfilled, a joint conference consisting
2. The Secretary-General shall submit this list of six members, three appointed by the General
to the General Assembly and to the Security Assembly and three by the Security Council, may
Council. be formed at any time at the request of either the
General Assembly or the Security Council, for the
Article 8 purpose of choosing by the vote of an absolute
The General Assembly and the Security Coun- majority one name for each seat still vacant, to
cil shall proceed independently of one another to submit to the General Assembly and the Security
elect the members of the Court. Council for their respective acceptance.
2. If the joint conference is unanimously agreed
upon any person who fulfils the required condi-

Article 9
tions, he maybe included in its list, even though
At every election, the electors shall bear in mind he was not included in the list of nominations re-
not only that the persons to be elected should in- ferred to in Article 7.
dividually possess the qualifications required, but 3. If the joint conference is satisfied that it will
also that in the body as a whole the representation not be successful in procuring an election, those
of the main forms of civilization and of the prin- members of the Court who have already been
cipal legal systems of the world should be assured. elected shall, within a period to be fixed by the
Security Council, proceed to fill the vacant seats

Article 10
by selection from among those candidates who
1. Those candidates who obtain an absolute have obtained votes either in the General Assem-
majority of votes in the General Assembly and in bly or in the Security Council.
the Security Council shall be considered as elected. 4. In the event of an equality of votes among
2. Any vote of the Security Council, whether the judges, the eldest judge shall have a casting
for the election of judges or for the appointment vote.
of members of the conference envisaged in Article
12, shall be taken without any distinction between
permanent and non-permanent members of the

Article 13
Security Council. 1. The members of the Court shall be elected
3. In the event of more than one national of the for nine years and may be re-elected; provided,
same state obtaining an absolute majority of the however, that of the judges elected at the first elec-
votes both of the General Assembly and of the tion, the terms of five judges shall expire at the end
Security Council, the eldest of these only shall be of three years and the terms of five more judges
considered as elected. shall expire at the end of six years.
2. The judges whose terms are to expire at the
Article 11 end of the above-mentioned initial periods of three
If, after the first meeting held for the purpose and six years shall be chosen by lot to be drawn
of the election, one or more seats remain to be by the Secretary-General immediately after the
filled, a second and, if necessary, a third meeting first election has been completed.
shall take place. 3. The members of the Court shall continue to
22

Article 18
discharge their duties until their places have been
filled. Though replaced, they shall finish any cases 1. No member of the Court can be dismissed
which they may have begun. unless, in the unanimous opinion of the other
4. In the case of the resignation of a member members, he has ceased to fulfil the required con-
of the Court, the resignation shall be addressed to ditions.
the President of the Court for transmission to the 2. Formal notification thereof shall be made to
Secretary-General. This last notification makes the the Secretary-General by the Registrar.
place vacant. 3. This notification makes the place vacant.
Article 14

Article 19
Vacancies shall be filled by the same method as The members of the Court, when engaged on
that laid down for the first election, subject to the the business of the Court, shall enjoy diplomatic
following provision : the Secretary-General shall, privileges and immunities.
within one month of the occurrence of the vacancy,
proceed to issue the invitations provided for in

Article 20
Article 5, and the date of the election shall be fixed Every member of the Court shall, before taking
by the Security Council. up his duties, make a solemn declaration in open
court that he will exercise his powers impartially
Article 15 and conscientiously.
A member of the Court elected to replace a
member whose term of office has not expired shall

Article 21
hold office for the remainder of his predecessor's 1. The Court shall elect its President and Vice-
term. President for three years; they may be re-elected.
2. The Court shall appoint its Registrar and
Article 16 may provide for the appointment of such other
1. No member of the Court may exercise any officers as may be necessary.
political or administrative function, or engage in
any other occupation of a professional nature.

Article 22
2. Any doubt on this point shall be settled by 1. The seat of the Court shall be established at
the decision of the Court. The Hague. This, however, shall not prevent the
Court from sitting and exercising its functions
Article 17 elsewhere whenever the Court considers it desir-
1. No member of the Court may act as agent, able.
counsel, or advocate in any case. 2. The President and the Registrar shall reside
2. No member may participate in the decision at the seat of the Court.
of any case in which he has previously taken part
as agent, counsel, or advocate for one of the par-

Article 23
ties, or as a member of a national or international 1. The Court shall remain permanently in
court, or of a commission of enquiry, or in any session, except during the judicial vacations,
other capacity. the dates and duration of which shall be fixed
3. Any doubt on this point shall be settled by by the Court.
the decision of the Court. 2. Members of the Court are entitled to peri-
23

odic leave, the dates and duration of which shall for dealing with a particular case. The number of
be fixed by the Court, having in mind the distance judges to constitute such a chamber shall be de-
between The Hague and the home of each judge. termined by the Court with the approval of the
3. Members of the Court shall be bound, un- parties.
less they are on leave or prevented from attending 3. Cases shall be heard and determined by the
" by illness or other serious reasons duly explained chambers provided for in this Article if the parties
to the President, to hold themselves permanently so request.
at the disposal of the Court.

Article 27
A judgment given by any of the chambers pro-
Article 24 vided for in Articles 26 and 29 shall be considered
1. If, for some special reason, a member of the as rendered by the Court.
Court considers that he should not take part in the
decision of a particular case, he shall so inform the

Article 28
President. The chambers provided for in Articles 26 and
2. If the President considers that for some spe- 29 may, with the consent of the parties, sit and ex-
cial reason one of the members of the Court should ercise their functions elsewhere than at The Hague.
not sit in a particular case, he shall give him notice
accordingly.

Article 29
3. If in any such case the member of the Court With a view to the speedy despatch of business,
and the President disagree, the matter shall be the Court shall form annually a chamber com-
settled by the decision of the Court. posed of five judges which, at the request of the
parties, may hear and determine cases by summary
Article 25 procedure. In addition, two judges shall be se-
1. The full Court shall sit except when it is ex- lected for the purpose of replacing judges who find
pressly provided otherwise in the present Statute. it impossible to sit.
2. Subject to the condition that the number of
judges available to constitute the Court is not

Article 30
thereby reduced below eleven, the Rules of the 1. The Court shall frame rules for carrying ou t
Court may provide for allowing one or more judges, its functions. In particular, it shall lay down rules
according to circumstances and in rotation, to be of procedure.
dispensed from sitting. 2. The Rules of the Court may provide for as-
3. A quorum of nine judges shall suffice to con- sessors to sit with the Court or with any of its
stitute the Court. chambers, without the right to vote.
Article 26

Article 31
1. The Court may from time to time form one 1. Judges of the nationality of each of the
or more chambers, composed of three or more parties shall retain their right to sit in the case
judges as the Court may determine, for dealing before the Court.
with particular categories of cases; for example, 2. If the Court includes upon the Bench a judge
labor cases and cases relating to transit and com- of the nationality of one of the parties, any other
munications. party may choose a person to sit as judge. Such
2. The Court may at any time form a chamber person shall be chosen preferably from among
24

those persons who have been nominated as candi- the General Assembly on the proposal of the Court.
dates as provided in Articles 4 and 5. 7. Regulations made by the General Assembly
3. If the Court includes upon the Bench no shall fix the conditions under which retirement
judge of the nationality of the parties, each of these pensions may be given to members of the Court
parties may proceed to choose a judge as provided and to the Registrar, and the conditions under
in paragraph 2 of this Article. which members of the Court and the Registrar
4. The provisions of this Article shall apply to shall have their traveling expenses refunded.
the case of Articles 26 and 29. In such cases, the 8. The above salaries, allowances, and com-
President shall request one or, if necessary, two pensation shall be free of all taxation.
of the members of the Court forming the chamber
to give place to the members of the Court of the

Article 33
nationality of the parties concerned, and, failing The expenses of the Court shall be borne by the
such, or if they are unable to be present, to the United Nations in such a manner as shall be de-
judges specially chosen by the parties. cided by the General Assembly.
5. Should there be several parties in the same
interest, they shall, for the purpose of the preced-
ing provisions, be reckoned as one party only. Any
CHAPTER II
doubt upon this point shall be settled by the de-
cision of the Court. COMPETENCE OF THE COURT
6. Judges chosen as laid down in paragraphs
2,3, and 4 of this Article shall fulfil the conditions

Article 34
required by Articles 2,17 (paragraph 2), 20, and 1. Only states may be parties in cases before
24 of the present Statute. They shall take part in the Court.
the decision on terms of complete equality with 2. The Court, subject to and in conformity with
their colleagues. its Rules, may request of public international or-
ganizations information relevant to cases before it,
Article 32 and shall receive such information presented by
1. Each member of the Court shall receive an such organizations on their own initiative.
annual salary. 3. Whenever the construction of the constitu-
2. The President shall receive a special annual ent instrument of a public international organi-
allowance. zation or of an international convention adopted
3. The Vice-President shall receive a special thereunder is in question in a case before the Court,
allowance for every day on which he acts as Presi- the Registrar shall so notify the public interna-
dent. tional organization concerned and shall communi-
4. The judges chosen under Article 31, other cate to it copies of all the written proceedings.
than members of the Court, shall receive compen-
sation for each^day on which they exercise their

Article 35
functions. 1. The Court shall be open to the states parties
5. These salaries, allowances, and compensa- to the present Statute.
tion shall be fixed by the General Assembly. They 2. The conditions under which the Court shall
may not be decreased during the term of office. be open to other states shall, subject to the special
6. The salary of the Registrar shall be fixed by provisions contained in treaties in force, be laid
25

down by the Security Council, but in no case shall International Court of Justice for the period which
such conditions place the parties in a position of they still have to run and in accordance with their
inequality before the Court. terms.
3. When a state which is not a Member of the 6. In the event of a dispute as to whether the
United Nations is a party to a case, the Court shall Court has jurisdiction, the matter shall be settled
fix the amount which that party is to contribute by the decision of the Court.
towards the expenses of the Court. This provision
shall not apply if such state is bearing a share of

Article 37
the expenses of the Court. Whenever a treaty or convention in force pro-
vides for reference of a matter to a tribunal to have
Article 36 been instituted by the League of Nations, or to the
1. The jurisdiction of the Court comprises all Permanent Court of International Justice, the
cases which the parties refer to it and all matters matter shall, as between the parties to the present
specially provided for in the Charter of the United Statute, be referred to the International Court of
Nations or in treaties and conventions in force. Justice.
2. The states parties to the present Statute may

Article 38
at any time declare that they recognize as compul- 1. The Court, whose function is to decide in
sory ipso facto and without special agreement, in accordance with international law such disputes
relation to any other state accepting the same obli- as are submitted to it, shall apply:
gation, the jurisdiction of the Court in all legal a. international conventions, whether gen-
disputes concerning: eral or particular, establishing rules expressly
a. the interpretation of a treaty; recognized by the contesting states ;
b. any question of international law; b. international custom, as evidence of a
c. the existence of any fact which, if estab- general practice accepted as law;
lished, would constitute a breach of an inter- c. the general principles of law recognized
national obligation ; by civilized nations ;
d. the nature or extent of the reparation to d. subject to the provisions of Article 59,
be made for the breach of an international ob- judicial decisions and the teachings of the most
ligation. highly qualified publicists of the various na-
3. The declarations referred to above may be tions, as subsidiary means for the determination
made unconditionally or on condition of reci- of rules of law.
procity on the part of several or certain states, or 2. This provision shall not prejudice the power
for a certain time. of the Court to decide a case ex aequo et bond, if
4. Such declarations shall be deposited with the parties agree thereto.
the Secretary-General of the United Nations, who
shall transmit copies thereof to the parties to the
Statute and to the Registrar of the Court. CHAPTER III
5. Declarations made under Article 36 of the
PROCEDURE
Statute of the Permanent Court of International
Justice and which are still in force shall be deemed,

Article 39
as between the parties to the present Statute, to be 1. The official languages of the Court shall be
acceptances of the compulsory jurisdiction of the French and English. If the parties agree that the
26

case shall be conducted in French, the judgment ties before the Court shall enjoy the privileges
shall be delivered in French. If the parties agree and immunities necessary to the independent ex-
that the case shall be conducted in English, the ercise of their duties.
judgment shall be delivered in English.
2. In the absence of an agreement as to which

Article 43
language shall be employed, each party may, in 1. The procedure shall consist of two parts:
the pleadings, use the language which it prefers; written and oral.
the decision of the Court shall be given in French 2. The written proceedings shall consist of
and English. In this case the Court shall at the the communication to the Court and to the parties
same time determine which of the two texts shall of memorials, counter-memorials and, if neces-
be considered as authoritative. sary, replies; also all papers and documents in
3. The Court shall, at the request of any party, support.
authorize a language other than French or English 3. These communications shall be made
to be used by that party. through the Registrar, in the order and within the
time fixed by the Court.
Article 40 4. A certified copy of every document produced
1. Cases are brought before the Court, as the by one party shall be communicated to the other
case may be, either by the notification of the special party.
agreement or by a written application addressed 5. The oral proceedings shall consist of the
to the Registrar. In either case the subject of the hearing by the Court of witnesses, experts, agents,
dispute and the parties shall be indicated. counsel, and advocates.
2. The Registrar shall forthwith communicate
the application to all concerned.

Article 44
3. He shall also notify the Members of the 1. For the service of all notices upon persons
United Nations through the Secretary-General, other than the agents, counsel, and advocates, the
and also any other states entitled to appear before Court shall apply direct to the government of the
the Court. state upon whose territory the notice has to be
served.

Article 41
2. The same provision shall apply whenever
1. The Court shall have the power to indicate, steps are to be taken to procure evidence on the
if it considers that circumstances so require, any spot.
provisional measures which ought to be taken to
preserve the respective rights of either party.

Article 45
2. Pending the final decision, notice of the The hearing shall be under the control of the
measures suggested shall forthwith be given to the President or, if he is unable to preside, of the Vice-
parties and to the Security Council. President; if neither is able to preside, the senior
judge present shall preside.

Article 42
1. The parties shall be represented by agents.

Article 46
2. They may have the assistance of counsel or The hearing in Court shall be public, unless the
advocates before the Court. Court shall decide otherwise, or unless the parties
3. The agents, counsel, and advocates of par- demand that the public be not admitted.
27

Article 47
2. The Court must, before doing so, satisfy it-
1. Minutes shall be made at each hearing and self, not only that it has jurisdiction in accordance
signed by the Registrar and the President. with Articles 36 and 37, but also that the claim is
2. These minutes alone shall be authentic. well founded in fact and law.
Article 48

Article 54
The Court shall make orders for the conduct of 1. When, subject to the control of the Court,
the case, shall decide the form and time in which the agents, counsel, and advocates have completed
each party must conclude its arguments, and make their presentation of the case, the President shall
all arrangements connected with the taking of declare the hearing closed.
evidence. 2. The Court shall withdraw to consider the
judgment.

Article 49
3. The deliberations of the Court shall take
The Court may, even before the hearing begins, place in private and remain secret.
call upon the agents to produce any document or
to supply any explanations. Formal note shall be

Article 55
taken of any refusal. 1. All questions shall be decided by a maj ority
of the judges present.

Article 50
2. In the event of an equality of votes, the Pres-
The Court may, at any time, entrust any indi- ident or the judge who acts in his place shall have
vidual, body, bureau, commission, or other organ- a casting vote.
ization that it may select, with the task of carrying
out an enquiry or giving an expert opinion.

Article 56
1. The judgment shall state the reasons on

Article 51
which it is based.
During the hearing any relevant questions are 2. It shall contain the names of the judges who
to be put to the witnesses and experts under the have taken part in the decision.
conditions laid down by the Court in the rules of
procedure referred to in Article 30.

Article 57
If the judgment does not represent in whole or

Article 52
in part the unanimous opinion of the judges, any
After the Court has received the proofs and evi- judge shall be entitled to deliver a separate opinion.
dence within the time specified for the purpose,
it may refuse to accept any further oral or written

Article 58
evidence that one party may desire to present un- The judgment shall be signed by the President
less the other side consents. and by the Registrar. It shall be read in open court,
due notice having heen given to the agents.

Article 53
1. Whenever one of the parties does not appear

Article 59
before the Court, or fails to defend its case, the The decision of the Court has no binding force
other party may call upon the Court to decide in except between the parties and in respect of that
favor of its claim. particular case.
28

Article 60
2. Every state so notified has the right to inter-
The judgment is final and without appeal. In vene in the proceedings; but if it uses this right,
the event of dispute as to the meaning or scope of the construction given by the judgment will be
the judgment, the Court shall construe it upon the equally binding upon it.
request of any party.

Article 64


Article 61
Unless otherwise decided by the Court, each
1. An application for revision of a judgment party shall bear its own costs.
may be made only when it is based upon the dis-
covery of some fact of such a nature as to be a de-
cisive factor, which fact was, when the judgment
was given, unknown to the Court and also to the CHAPTER IV
party claiming revision, always provided that such
ADVISORY OPINIONS
ignorance was not due to negligence.
2. The proceedings for revision shall be opened

Article 65
by a judgment of the Court expressly recording the 1. The Court may give an advisory opinion on
existence of the new fact, recognizing that it has any legal question at the request of whatever body
such a character as to lay the case open to revision, may be authorized by or in accordance with the
and declaring the application admissible on this Charter of the United Nations to make such a
ground. request.
3. The Court may require previous compliance 2. Questions upon which the advisory opinion
with the terms of the judgment before it admits of the Court is asked shall be laid before the Court
proceedings in revision. by means of a written request containing an exact
4. The application for revision must be made statement of the question upon which an opinion
at latest within six months of the discovery of the is required, and accompanied by all documents
new fact. likely to throw light upon the question.
5. No application for revision may be made
after the lapse of ten years from the date of the

Article 66
judgment. 1. The Registrar shall forthwith give notice of
the request for an advisory opinion to all states

Article 62
entitled to appear before the Court.
1. Should a state consider that it has an interest 2. The Registrar shall also, by means of a
of a legal nature which may be affected by the de- special and direct communication, notify any state
cision in the case, it may submit a request to the entitled to appear before the Court or international
Court to be permitted to intervene. organization considered by the Court, or, should
2. It shall be for the Court to decide upon this it not be sitting, by the President, as likely to be
request. able to furnish information on the question, that
Article 63 the Court will be prepared to receive, within a
1. Whenever the construction of a convention time limit to be fixed by the President, written
to which states other than those concerned in the statements, or to hear, at a public sitting to be held
case are parties is in question, the Registrar shall for the purpose, oral statements relating to the
notify all such states forthwith. question.
29

3. Should any such state entitled to appear be- Court shall further be guided by the provisions of
fore the Court have failed to receive the special the present Statute which apply in contentious
communication referred to in paragraph 2 of this cases to the extent to which it recognizes them to be
Article, such state may express a desire to submit applicable.
a written statement or to be heard; and the Court
will decide.
4. States and organizations having presented CHAPTERV
written or oral statements or both shall be per-
AMENDMENT
mitted to comment on the statements made br-
other states or organizations in the form, to the

Article 69
extent, and within the time limits which the Court, Amendments to the present Statute shall be
or, should it not be sitting, the President, shall effected by the same procedure as is provided by
decide in each particular case. Accordingly, the the Charter of the United Nations for amendments
Registrar shall in due time communicate any such to that Charter, subject however to any provisions
written statements to states and organizations which the General Assembly upon recommenda-
having submitted similar statements. tion of the Security Council may adopt concerning
the participation of states which are parties to the

Article 67
present Statute but are not Members of the United
The Court shall deliver its advisory opinions in Nations.
open court, notice having been given to the Secre-
tary-General and to the representatives of Members

Article 70
of the United Nations, of other states and of inter- The Court shall have power to propose such
national organizations immediately concerned. amendments to the present Statute as it may deem
necessary, through written communications to the

Article 68
Secretary-General, for consideration in conformity
In the exercise of its advisory functions the with the provisions of Article 69.
30

FOR CHINA:
POUR LA CHINE:
3a Kirran:
POR LA CHINA:
T
$

FOR THE UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS:
POUR L'UNION DES REPUBLIQUES SOVIETIQUES SOCIALISTES:
3a C0103 COBETCKIIX ComiajiHcnraecKiix Pecnyojimc:
POR LA UNION DE REPUBLICAS SOCIALISTAS SOVIETICAS:
(H^tMh-—"

FOR THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND:
POUR LE ROYAUME-UNI DE GRANDE-BRETAGNE ET D'IRLANDE DU NORD :
3a Coe^HHeHHoe KopojieBCTBO BejiHEoftpHTamninCeBepHOHH H Ce
POR EL REINO UNIDO DE LA GRAN BRETANA E IRLANDA DEL NORTE:
FOR THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
POUR LES ETATS-UNIS D'AMERIQUE:
3a CoeflimeHHBie IHraTH
POR LOS ESTAD
"7"
\L
^A

FOR FRANCE:
POUR LA FRANCE
3a
POR FRANCIA:
FOR ARGENTINA:
POUR L'ARGENTINE :
3a ApreHTHHy:
POR LA ARGENTINA

FOR AUSTRALIA:
POUR L'AUSTRALIE
3a
POR AUSTRAL
FOR THE KINGDOM OF BELGIUM:
POUR LE ROYAUME DE BELGIQUE :
3a Kopo.ieBCTBo Bejitran:
POR EL REINO DE BELGICA:
FOR BOLIVIA:
POUR LA BOLIVIE
3a BojniBiiio:
POR BOLIVIA:

FOR BRAZIL:
POUR LE BRESIL:
3a Bpa3iiJiino:
POR EL BRASIL:
'C-<--i»_-»—•—• \j

FOR THE BYELORUSSIAN SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLIC :
POUR LA REPUBLIQUE SOVIETIQUE SOCIALISTE DEBELORUSSIE
3a BejiopyccKyio CoeeTCKyio CounajincTinecKyio Pecny6jiHKy:
POR LA REPUBLICA SOCIALISTA SOVIETICA BIELORRUSA:
FOR CANADA:
POUR LE CANADA
3a
POR EL CANADA:

FOR CHILE:
POUR LE CHILI:
3a
POR CHILE;
//l
(^J^VY *^

FOR COLOMBIA:
POUR LA COLOMBIE
5 1
Ff *
3a
POR COLOMBIA:
FOR COSTA RICA:
POUR COSTA-RICA
3a KocTapmcy:
POR COSTA RICA:

FOR CUBA:
POUR CUBA
3a Kyoy:
POR CUBA:
FOR CZECHOSLOVAKIA:
POUR LA TCHECOSLOVAQUIE
3a lIexocjioBaKHH):
POR CHECOESLOVAQUIA:
FOR DENMARK:
POUR LE DANEMARK
3a J
POR DINAMARCA:

FOR THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC:
POUR LA REPUBLIQUE DOMINICAINE:
3a /JoMEHHKaHCKyio Pec
POR LA REPUBLIC A
FOR ECUADOR:
POUR L'EQUATEUR
3a
POR EL ECUADOR:
^A^K^J^ilíL
FOR EGYPT:
POUR L'EGYPTE:
3a
POR EGIPTO:

FOR EL SALVADOR:
POUR LE SALVADOR
3a
POR EL SALVADOR:
r
FOR ETHIOPIA:
POUR L'ETHIOPIE
3a
POR ETIOPIA:

FOR GREECE:
POUR LA GRECE:
3a rpemiio:
POR GRECIA:
/
FOR GUATEMALA:
POUR LE GUATEMALA
JBUU&
3a FBaTeMajiy:
POR GUATEMALA
FOR HAITI:
POUR HAITI:
3a
POR HAITI :

FOR HONDURAS:
POUR LE HONDURAS:
3a FoHflypac:
POR HONDURAS:
FOR INDIA:
POUR L'INDE:
3a HH,¡JHIO:
POR LA INDIA:
FOR IRAN:
POUR L'IRAN:
3a Hpan:
POR IRAN:

FOR IRAQ:
POUR L'IRAK:
3a Hpaie:
POR IRAK:
FOR LEBANON:
POUR LE LIBAN
3a
POR EL LIBANO

FOR LIBERIA:
POUR LE LIBERIA:
3a JTHÔepmo:
POR LIBERIA
FOR THE GRAND DUCHY OF LUXEMBOURG
POUR LE GRAND DUCHE DE LUXEMBOURG
3a BejiHKoe FepuorcTBo JIroKceM6ypr:
POR EL GRAN DUCADO DE LUXEMBURGO:

FOR MEXICO :
POUR LE MEXIQUE :
3a MeKcmcy:
POR MEXICO:
FOR THE KINGDOM OF THE NETHERLANDS
POUR LE ROYAUME DES PAYS-BAS :
3a KopojieBCTBo
POR EL REINO DE HOLANDA:
FOR NEW ZEALAND:
POUR LA NOUVELLE-ZELANDE:
3a HOBVK) 3ejiaHffHio:
POR NUEVA ZELANDIA:

FOR NICARAGUA:
POUR LE NICARAGUA:
3a HnKaparya:
POR NICARAGUA:
FOR THE KINGDOM OF NORWAY:
POUR LE ROYAUME DE NORVÈGE:
3a KopojiescTBO HopBerm:
POR EL REINO DE NORUEGA:
FOR PANAMA:
POUR LE PANAMA:
3a
POR PANAMA:

FOR PARAGUAY:
POUR LE PARAGUAY
3a IlaparBaH:
POR EL PARAGUAY:
FOR PERU:
POUR LE PEROU:
3a Ilepy:
POR EL PERU:

FOR.THE PHILIPPINE COMMONWEALTH:
POUR LE COMMONWEALTH DES PHILIPPINES:
3a
POR LA MANCOMUNIDAD DE FILIPINAS:
/ *
/
FOR POLAND:
POUR LA POLOGNE
3a IIojiBiny:
POR POLONIA:

FOR SAUDI ARABIA:
POUR L'ARABIE SAOUDITE
3a Cay#n ApaBHio:
POR ARABIA SAUDITA:
FOR SYRIA:
POUR LA SYRIE:
3a Cnpnio:
POR SIRIA:
FOR TURKEY:
POUR LA TURQUIE
3aTypupEDEo:
POR TURQUIA:

FOR THE UKRAINIAN SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLIC:
POUR LA RÉPUBLIQUE SOVIÉTIQUE SOCIALISTE D'UKRAINE:
8a yKpaHHCKyio CoBeTCKyio Coi^iiajmcTn^ecKyio Pecnydjimcy:
POR LA REPÚBLICA SOCIALISTA SOVIÉTICA UCRANIANA:
J
o
ut ^vwi/V(ro
FOR THE UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA:
POUR L'UNION SUD-AFRICAINE:
3a IOiKHoa^pmcaHCKiiH C0103:
POR LA UNIÓN SUDAFRICANA:

FOR URUGUAY:
POUR L'URUGUAY
3a
POR EL URUGUAY
FOR VENEZUELA:
POUR LE VENEZUELA:
8a BeHecyaziy:
POR VENEZUELA:

FOR YUGOSLAVIA:
POUR LA YOUGOSLAVIE
3a K)rocJiaBmo:
POR YUGOSLAVIA:
I Certify 1hat the foregoing is a true copy of the Charter of the United Nations, with the
Statute of the International Court of Justice annexed thereto, signed in San Francisco,
California, on June 26,1945, in the Chinese, French, Russian, English, and Spanish languages,
the signed original of which is deposited in the archives of the Government of the United
States of America.
In Testimony Whereof, I, EDWARD R. STETTINIUS, JR., Secretary of State, have here-
unto caused the seal of the Department of State to be affixed and my name subscribed by an
Assistant Chief, Division of Central Services of the said Department, at the city of Washington,
in the District of Columbia, this twenty-qewwroilay of June1945.
Se/ifeUiTyjof State
Assistant Chief, Division of Central Services

